---
title: "April 2026"
image: "april-2026-hero.jpg"
description: "A reflection on meaningful visits to family in San Pablo Huixtepec and Tlacolula, while emphasizing gratitude, personal growth, and the importance of cherishing life’s fleeting moments. Helping you find joy through movement, reconnecting with hobbies, and to prioritize love, health, and meaningful connections."
published_date: "2026-04-01"
---

## FROM ME:

In March, I visited **San Pablo Huixtepec**. This is the place where I was born. This is
where a lot of my families live, including my Godparents. I try to visit at least once a month.
Thankful to my aunt Alba, Tio Poncho, and cousin Denis/Yoshio for all the kindness when I
stop by to visit. I love all my family in this town. I also visited the town of **Tlacolula** in
March with my family. I had the best Mexican bread ever here! After finishing my training
program this month, I am the strongest I have ever been. Hey team, I’m now legalized to
drive a motorcycle and car in Mexico!😊

This month, several members from our Ocho Fitness Family went through some tough
health issues. It reminds me even more of how uncertain life can be. Our life is truly but a
vapor. Know that I’m praying for you.

> How do you know what your life will be like tomorrow? Your life is like the morning
fog—it’s here a little while, then it’s gone. **— James 4:14**

In this time that we have let’s work at loving each other, helping each other without
expectations, and appreciating the people in our lives. I hope you find something in your life
that brings you joy and peace this month. Let’s really enjoy being here and making a
difference while we can. No regrets…

I work out to stay strong, of course, but it’s also a lot of practice. I’m paying attention to foot 
placement, breathing patterns, adjusting positions, and figuring out routines. I run for
practice too. I swim because I’m bad at it, really bad. Ask my kids.😉

A friend introduced me to rock climbing a few years ago. I fell in love with it. It’s an activity
that brings me joy. When I was going through a rough patch in my life, going climbing with
Miles helped so much. I was only focused on the wall I was climbing, controlling my nerves
and fear, fighting the tired and hurting hands. Getting to the top was the best feeling.

I eventually got certified for belaying and started bringing my kids to Vertical Endeavors in
Saint Paul, MN. Angelo and Adrian also got certified. I personally think there is such a
strong bond between climber and belayer. I loved helping the kids, and the boys helped
their sisters too. The girls really liked going, and the boys were forced there by me
sometimes LOL, but I want to think they all had fun. I miss that. I miss my kids so much.

I hope this month you find or re-try an activity you enjoyed and stopped. Whether it's 
crocheting, playing chess, skiing, reading, re-connecting with an old hobby this month.

## -Find your joy this month-
INSERT IMAGES
3/19/26 Saint Paul, MN 3/19/26 Oaxaca Mexico

## Tip of the month:

### Heart Rates-

What’s safe and appropriate?

The most common method used by medical professionals is (220- age), but is this correct?

It’s a good place to start! But science says:

### -It will become inaccurate as we age and as we get stronger-

Then what about knowing your Threshold Heart Rate, isn’t that better? Yes, but to
get the most accurate measurement, we need to know your VO2 max. To do this,
you need special equipment and go to a place to have this done. Then, once you have that
number, you can train, according to your reading. This method is more suited for elite level
endurance athletes or people who are going to be training for specific events.

### What can most people use to check HR and exertion levels? The talk test:😉

The talk test is an easier way for a coach to tell whether a client could be in Zone 1,2 or 3.

Understanding this allows us to better distinguish the zone the client might be in. Then we
can push them safely to a harder zone or back them off if they might be in a zone we don’t
want. I learned this technique many years ago. This technique, along with a simple watch
that shows heart rate, is a good safe way to monitor HR and exertion levels.

As your coach, I listen to your breathing, your pacing, and even how you respond when I
ask you a question mid-set!

If you’re training alone, try this:

1. Count your reps out loud
2. Speak between sets
3. Pay attention to your breathing

Watch the videos below.

Keep working hard. Stay safe.

[3-zone Cardiorespiratory Training using the ACE IFT Model](https://youtu.be/e8vRWNb0suE?si=Q3_iUf2sgpy6h9z3)

[Talk test info](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10331140/)

[HR Training Zone Calculator](https://www.myprocoach.net/calculators/hr-zones/)

## This month’s Question:
   
Why change the workouts? What’s the benefit? What program style do we use?

Study shows our bodies can adapt well and respond to as little as 4-week training programs. 
If you are getting stronger, it’s working.
   
There are longer training programs we can follow. Downside, it can get boring.

It’s important to write an appropriate program because it makes all the difference. 
I think this is one of the hardest parts of the job. 
There are many factors to consider when writing a program.

Many coaches personally follow a longer program like 8–12 weeks because we are ok doing
with the same routine to achieve a goal, like outcome i.e., deadlifting 500 lbs or benching
a goal weight. It takes longer for the adaptation to occur. Most people can benefit from a
shorter 4-week program. You can lose weight, get stronger, and lose body fat and not feel
like it is repetitive.

The training style we use at Ocho Fitness is a Hybrid method. A lot of strength coaches are
now transitioning to this method. I personally find that it allows us to get strong, build
endurance, and stay more mobile. We combine powerlifting exercises (crucial for
everyday life) as a foundation to learn human movement patterns. We then with multiple
rep exercises strengthen weak areas in our bodies or areas we want to strengthen more.
Finally, we use a combination of methods to increase our cardiovascular capacity.

https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00038-014-0601-7
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=65sL92EJI4k

## Client Spotlight

A huge shoutout to Michael and Dan, both over 70, who:

- Lost weight
- Lost bodyfat
- Increased muscle

This is because of their hard work and changing their food intake.

Remember there is never a too late or too old or too difficult.

Stay savages.

If you are ready to start your fitness journey for the first time or are re-starting, contact us
by email at [ochofitness1985@gmail.com](mailto:ochofitness1985@gmail.com)

A stronger, healthier version of you is waiting.

Blessings family.
Jovani